Auth0 Hackathon
===============

> **Project Topic: - AI Recruiter**
>
> **Team Name: - AITECH**

1.  **Introduction: -**

    1.  **Overview --**

AI for job recruitment is the application of A.I, such as the learning
or problem-solving that a computer can do, to recruit applicants.

This new technology is designed to streamline or automate some part of
the recruitment workflow, especially repetitive, high-volume tasks.

### Purpose-

AI for recruitment is an emerging category of HR technology designed to
reduce

--- or even remove ---

time-consuming activities like manually screening resumes.

Screening resumes efficiently and time-effectively still remains the
biggest challenge in talent acquisition: 52% of talent acquisition
leaders say that the hardest part of recruitment is identifying the
right candidates from a large applicant pool.

According to a survey of talent acquisition leaders, 56% say their
hiring volume will increase this year, but 66% of recruiting teams will
either stay the same size or contract.

2.  Literature Survey: -
    --------------------

    1.  ### Existing Problem-

In the lockdown, many companies have suspended their employees. After
the Lockdown, as a result Many companies will face difficulties for
recruiting candidates for suitable job roles since they're going to face
a lot of shortage of employees.

### Proposed Solution-

We've developed a prototype which will help recruiters to recruit the
candidate with the help of IBM Watson Assistant with the help of
aptitude questions and tests prebuilt and only the ones qualifying with
certain score can further proceed.

## How to use it
-   create a service on ibm cloud named watson assistant and lanch it.

-   click the Skills icon .

-   Click Create skill.

-   If you are given the option of more than one skill type, choose to
    create a dialog skill.

-   Click Import skill, and then click Choose JSON File, and select the
    JSON file you want to import. 

-   Click Import. 

-   Specify the details for the skill:


3.  Theoretical Analysis: -
    -----------------------

    1.  ### Activity-

![Alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huzaifa525/Auth0/master/Screenshots/acticity.png "Activity Diagram")

2.  **Hardware / Software Design: -**

For this project, I designed a chatbot, in that a candidate have to
answer several questions. I created two rounds for Test. If the total
score is less than 6 then he/she is not qualified else he/she is
qualified.

3.  **Architecture Diagram: -**

![Alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huzaifa525/Auth0/master/Screenshots/Architecture%20Diagram.jpeg "Architecture Diagram")

**3.4 Future Implementation: -**

In near future we're planning to make a dedicated android and ios app
for better convenience and also increase the further functionalities
like the methods for data collection and much more.

Experimental Analysis: -
------------------------

We've tested the chatbot several times if you enter wrong choices it
will not allow you to proceed further and shows error.

Result: -
---------

As a result, it works fine. If we deployed it, it can success since
after coronavirus pandemic end, many companies hire employees so we can
offer that companies our chatbot from which they can hire faster.

6.  Advantages and Disadvantages: -
    -------------------------------

    1.  ### Advantages-

-   Cost Effective **Hiring**.

-   Reduced Time to Hire.

-   Improved Quality of Candidates.

-   Automate Tedious Manual Tasks like screening resumes and aptitude
    > tests.

-   Better Experience for Candidates.

-   Time wise Efficiency.

### 6.1 Disadvantages-

Some Non-Technical jobs will require basic tutorials first for the
process of application. Good Content of questions and test needs to be
set first.

Conclusion: -
-------------

Artificial Intelligence is becoming a game changer in a number of
industries, as most include recruitment. If you're not adding AI into
your recruitment process, or at least reading up on the possibilities,
you're definitely missing out. There are a number of benefits of adding
AI to your recruitment process. As you begin to test new processes or
systems, you can learn more about what you and your candidates are
looking for during the job hunt. With the right tools, software, and
programs, you can develop an automated process that improves the quality
of your candidates and their application experience.

Future Scope: -
---------------

While AI is reported to have a major impact on the workforce, recruiters
will likely be safe. There are many efficiencies hiring software offers
but the benefits are more of automated workflows and not necessarily
computerized decision making.
